Ops handbook finance management (#833)
publiccodenet/about: activities/finance-management/bookkeeping.md

---
type: Guide
explains: how bookkeeping is managed
---

# Bookkeeping

> [GetMonkeys](https://getmonkeys.io/) is our service provider. They process and book all the payments every second Wednesday of the month. Any corrections can be mailed to the bookkeeper and are processed the next day. GetMonkey's is also responsible for producing our annual financial reports and can be asked for other financial services based on our needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GetMonkeys](https://getmonkeys.io/) is our service provider. They process and book all the payments every second Wednesday of the month. Any corrections can be mailed to the bookkeeper and are processed the next day. GetMonkeys is also responsible for producing our annual financial reports and can be asked for other financial services based on our needs.
```

## Exact

> [Exact is a Dutch software company](https://www.exact.com/) that offers accounting, ERP, and other software for small and medium enterprises. We have a license via GetMonkey’s. The Operations Coordinator and Chief Executive have access to Exact. Temporary access can be given to financial consultants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Exact is a Dutch software company](https://www.exact.com/) that offers accounting, ERP, and other software for small and medium enterprises. We have a license via GetMonkeys. The Operations Coordinator and Chief Executive have access to Exact. Temporary access can be given to financial consultants.
```

* Do NOT send receipts from underlying expense forms, as this would lead to duplication
* Filing: The Operations Coordinator keeps invoices and expense forms organized by month and year in the [Secret Finance Drive.](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1B47cfi314HJzoW7_QDaaaG1hfvxwCjpJ)

## Invoices – receivable

* Send to <2y4k@verkoop.exactonline.nl> as PDF.

## Bank statements

* Bank statements can be downloaded from the Rabobank dashboard
* Rabobank is linked to Exact, so we don't need to submit the statements
* Credit card statements are send by snail-mail as well as available in the Rabobank dashboard. The credit card statements need to be mailed to Exact every month: <2y4k@verkoop.exactonline.nl> as PDF.

## Budget

* The budget blueprint (spreadsheet) which is used as the baseline for budgeting and forecasting was constructed with help of our finance consultant, Rob Schouten.
* The budget is approved by the board by the end of each year and is added to Visionplanner
* The Operations Coordinator is responsible for budgeting and adding it to Visionplanner

## Tax status pertaining financials

> * We have ANBI status: read more information about ANBI benefits and requirements

Reviewer 2: Link is missing to the "Read more information about ANBI benefits and requirements"
